README.md, before:

# ansible-examples
These are my little playbooks, to remind me how Ansible tasks behave.
These are more brain-dump than structured, so quite possibly a complete mess.

## What are these?

These are tiny playbooks that run locally, to see how ansible behaves. 
These playbooks are simple - no roles, SSH, remote hosts, or privilege escalation. 

I wrote these on Fedora and OS X. My cross-platform testing is a big fat zero. 
So I have no idea how they behave on Windows or other platforms.

### getting started 

* `sudo dnf install ansible git` 
* `git clone https://github.com/nickhardiman/ansible-examples`
* `ansible-playbook ansible-examples/ansible-facts.yml`

### playbook 

Each file name provides a clue about what the playbook does. 
The filter-union.yaml file has a few tasks using the 'union' filter. 
Run it like this. 
ansible-playbook filter-union.yml 

### inventory 

Most playbooks read the inventory file inventory=inventory-localhost.yml
This is set by the line 'inventory=inventory-localhost.yml' in ansible.cfg.

### configuration

Most playbooks read the default configuration file, ansible.cfg.
There are a few variations on configuration files in the same directory.
Playbook callback-cgroup.yml requires callback-cgroup-ansible.cfg.
I don't know of any way to specify a configuration file on the command line. 
Use the ANSIBLE_CONFIG variable to point to this configuration file. 
`ANSIBLE_CONFIG=ansible-examples/callback-cgroup-ansible.cfg  ansible-playbook ansible-examples/callback-cgroup.yml`

Commit message:

oh dear, what have I done

README.md, after:

# ansible-examples

These are my little playbooks, to remind me how Ansible tasks behave.

Read it, run it, edit it, play with it. 

"It's a pile of junk" disclaimer - 
The files are more brain-dump than structured, so quite possibly a complete mess.

## What are these?

These are tiny playbooks that run locally, to see how ansible behaves. 
The playbooks are simple - no roles, SSH, remote hosts, or privilege escalation. 

I wrote these on Fedora. My cross-platform testing is a big fat zero. 
I have no idea how they behave on Windows or other platforms.

### getting started 

* `sudo dnf install ansible git` 
* `git clone https://github.com/nickhardiman/ansible-examples`
* `ansible-playbook ansible-examples/ansible-facts.yml`

### playbook 

Each file name provides a clue about what the playbook does. 
The `filter-union.yaml` file has a few tasks using the 'union' filter. 
Run it like this. 
`ansible-playbook filter-union.yml` 

Each playbook starts with a description of how you run it and what it does.
Or at least some do. I got distracted, it's not my fault. 

### inventory 

Most playbooks read the inventory file inventory=inventory-localhost.yml
This is set by the line `inventory=inventory-localhost.yml` in ansible.cfg.

### configuration

Most playbooks read the default configuration file, ansible.cfg.
There are a few variations on configuration files in the same directory.
Playbook callback-cgroup.yml requires callback-cgroup-ansible.cfg.
I don't know of any way to specify a configuration file on the command line. 
Use the ANSIBLE_CONFIG variable to point to this configuration file. 
`ANSIBLE_CONFIG=ansible-examples/callback-cgroup-ansible.cfg  ansible-playbook ansible-examples/callback-cgroup.yml`
